# Practical work 05: JDBC

## Intro

-----

This time, we will connect to a Database for the first time.

## Installation of the project

-----

The first step is to download the starting project [`code.zip`](./code.zip) and to extract it inside your *IDE* workspace.

Import the project inside your *IDE*, then you can update your Maven repository by triggering a maven update project dependencies in your *IDE*.

### Installation of the database

!!! info
    Since we will use SQLite, we don't need any database setup, as all the data will be created in a file by SQLite itself. Obviously, if you want to change SQLite by another database engine, you should set it up accordingly!

You can see that we import the SQLite driver in the `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.xerial</groupId>
    <artifactId>sqlite-jdbc</artifactId>
    <version>3.30.1</version>
</dependency>
```

## Instructions

-----

### Implementing the two DAO

The Java project contains two DAO *classes* in the `fr.isen.java2.db.daos package`: `MovieDao` and `GenreDao`. (One DAO for each entity and for each `SQL` table)

Both DAO has several *methods* that you have to write using JDBC like explained in the lesson. Two TestCase *classes* have been created in the `src/test/java` directory to test your implementations.

### GenreDao

The simpler of the two DAO is the `GenreDao`. You have to implement the three methods. Since this is not a `SQL` lesson, here are the different `SQL` queries to execute for each *method* (or something similar):

*method*|SQL Query
---|---
listGenres|`SELECT * FROM genre`
getGenre|`SELECT * FROM genre WHERE name = 'Comedy'`
addGenre|`INSERT INTO genre(name) VALUES('Horror')`

The GenreDaoTestCase *class* is here to help you. Its tests are already written and you can run them to see if your *methods* are correct.

!!! hint "Some tips"
    - The `DataSourceFactory` must be used to get a `DataSource` *object* for which you can open a connection.
    - Don't forget to use a prepared statement when needed.
    - Use the `Genre(int id, String name)` constructor to create new `Genre` *objects*.

When every tests are green in the test case, you can continue.

### MovieDAO

The MovieDao interface is similar to the GenreDao one. Its implementation is a little more difficult to write because the Movie entity is little more complex than the Genre entity.

Once again, here are the SQL queries to use:

*method*|SQL Query
---|---
listMovies|`SELECT * FROM movie JOIN genre ON movie.genre_id = genre.idgenre`
listMoviesByGenre|`SELECT * FROM movie JOIN genre ON movie.genre_id = genre.idgenre WHERE genre.name = 'Comedy'`
addMovie|`INSERT INTO movie(title,release_date,genre_id,duration,director,summary) VALUES(?,?,?,?,?,?)`

You will see that the `addMovie` *method* has a `Movie` *object* as a *parameter* and as a *return* type. The *parameter* will have all the information needed to create the movie in the database but no `id`! The *object* returned by the method must have the same information with the `id` that has been generated by the database.

Use the `MovieDaoTestCase` *class* to test your methods. This time, you have to write the tests yourself.

### Bonus stage

`DataSourceFactory` uses an explicit dependency to the SQLite driver. What if we want to use PostgreSQL or MySQL? As for now we have to change our code and recompile. Not very clever, isn't it?

Conveniently, `JDBC` provides a *class* called `DriverManager` that can infer the driver to use according to the connection `URL` provided, and the drivers loaded in the *classpath*.

Refactor your code to make use of this `DriverManager` *class*, instead of relying on the SQLite `DataSource` *class*.

To validate that your code is dependency-free, comment the dependency to SQLite connector in `pom.xml`. Your code should still compile (but not run, obviously). What would be the right scope for this dependency ?

## Evaluated Work

-----

!!! warning
    Remember that this Practical Work is being evaluated.

### Analysis of your work

The quality of your code, the clarity of your implementation will be taken into account for your grade.

- [x] Your project must be standalone (regular maven project, no hidden dependencies)
- [x] Your code must compile
- [x] Every opened resource has to be closed.
- [x] The code must implement the requirements of the PW.
- [x] The tests must *run* and *pass*
- [x] Use SQL functions where needed. In particular, use the Database functions where applicable.
- [x] Document your code; use clear, readable names
- [x] Leave no warning behind
- [x] Even if the whole project does not work, an analysis will be made on your whole project, your maven configuration and on the ability to import your project inside an IDE.

!!! hint
    Don’t be afraid to ask your teacher if you are stuck in your implementation.

### Deadline

!!! danger "Reminder"
    You have until **Sunday, February, the 11th at 23:59:59.999** to send me your work.

You have two ways to send your work:

- Send me the link to a GitHub or Gitlab project (last commit **before** the deadline)
- Send me a zip file (max 10 mo) by email. **Change the extension, or send a 7zip file**, to avoid having your file filtered by anti-spam software... **NO RAR FILES**

- Your code / email have to clearly state who you are.

- It is your responsibility to ensure that I received the file. If I received your code I will get back to you individually to confirm that I received your work no later than February, the 20th at 23:59.

- Provide all the information you think is necessary to understand and rate your project.

- Your project should at least contain:
    - [x] a `pom.xml` file
    - [x] your java classes
    - [x] the test classes used to validate your code
